3_common_prog_concepts/2_datatypes/README.adoc, before:

=== Data Types

Rust is statically typed language that is all the data types are known during the compile-time.
In most cases the compiler can infer the datatype used, in some cases the variable needs to annotated to explicitly mention the datatype.

Rust has 2 types of data types

* Scalars
* Compound

==== Scalars
These represent a single value

===== Integers
====== Type
Integer type is written as:
----
<sign><size>
----

* <sign> can be
+
|===
|Sign | Type |Range

|u |unsigned |0 to 2^n^-1
|i |signed |-2^n-1^ to 2^n-1^-1
|===

* <size> can be

** 8, 16, 32, 64, 128: size in bits
** size: used for indexing a collection, it depends on the size of address bus which in turn depends upon the CPU architecture

[NOTE]
====
The default type is *i32*
====

====== Value
Integer value can be written as:
|===
|Form | Base type

|<value> |decimal
|0x<value> |hexadecimal
|0o<value> |octal
|0b<value> |binary
|b'<value>' |byte(u8 only)
|===

In any base type, the digits can be separated by *_*:
----
98_222
0b1111_0000
----

====== Overflow
In debug mode, rust checks for overflows and crashes the code.
In release mode, it doesn't crash the code but performs 2's complement wrapping.
Hence, for *u8* variable, in release mode, 256 will be written as 0 and 257 as 1 and so on.

[WARNING]
====
You should never write a code that relies on the 2's complement wrapping.
Instead, use the methods in the standard library to specify how you want it to be handled.
====

===== Float
Represented in memory as per the IEEE-754 standard.
The type is represented as:
----
f<size>
----
where <size> is 32 or 64(default).

===== Boolean
one byte variable to hold *true* or *false* which are the values used in conditionals.

===== Character
[IMPORTANT]
====
Unlike other languages such as *C* where a character is a 1 byte ASCII value, rust's character is of a 4 byte Unicode value.
====
Written as:
----
'<character>'
----
[WARNING]
====
Single quotes are for characters and double quotes are for strings.
====

==== Compound

===== Tuple
===== Array

Commit message:

compound data types and their access

3_common_prog_concepts/2_datatypes/README.adoc, after:

=== Data Types

Rust is statically typed language that is all the data types are known during the compile-time.
In most cases the compiler can infer the datatype used, in some cases the variable needs to annotated to explicitly mention the datatype.

Rust has 2 types of data types

* Scalars
* Compound

==== Scalars
These represent a single value

===== Integers
====== Type
Integer type is written as:
----
<sign><size>
----

* <sign> can be
+
|===
|Sign | Type |Range

|u |unsigned |0 to 2^n^-1
|i |signed |-2^n-1^ to 2^n-1^-1
|===

* <size> can be

** 8, 16, 32, 64, 128: size in bits
** size: used for indexing a collection, it depends on the size of address bus which in turn depends upon the CPU architecture

[NOTE]
====
The default type is *i32*
====

====== Value
Integer value can be written as:
|===
|Form | Base type

|<value> |decimal
|0x<value> |hexadecimal
|0o<value> |octal
|0b<value> |binary
|b'<value>' |byte(u8 only)
|===

In any base type, the digits can be separated by *_*:
----
98_222
0b1111_0000
----

====== Overflow
In debug mode, rust checks for overflows and crashes the code.
In release mode, it doesn't crash the code but performs 2's complement wrapping.
Hence, for *u8* variable, in release mode, 256 will be written as 0 and 257 as 1 and so on.

[WARNING]
====
You should never write a code that relies on the 2's complement wrapping.
Instead, use the methods in the standard library to specify how you want it to be handled.
====

===== Float
Represented in memory as per the IEEE-754 standard.
The type is represented as:
----
f<size>
----
where <size> is 32 or 64(default).

===== Boolean
one byte variable to hold *true* or *false* which are the values used in conditionals.

===== Character
[IMPORTANT]
====
Unlike other languages such as *C* where a character is a 1 byte ASCII value, rust's character is of a 4 byte Unicode value.
====
Written as:
----
'<character>'
----
[WARNING]
====
Single quotes are for characters and double quotes are for strings.
====

==== Compound
These types can group multiple values into one type.
===== Tuple
General way of grouping values of different types.
Once declared, cannot change the size.

Tuple without any value, is a special type that has only one value, *()*.
This type is called unit type and value () is called unit value.
[NOTE]
====
Expressions implicitly return unit value when they have no value to return.
====

===== Array
Way to group multiple values of same type.
Once declared, cannot change the size.
AN array is a single chunk of memory of a known, fixed size that can be allocated on the stack.


[NOTE]
====
Rust performs run-time on the validity of the index used to access the compound data type which prevents invalid memory accesses.
====
